.TH GENIUS-RS 1 "2026-06-22" "0.1.0" "Genius CLI"
.SH NAME
genius-rs \- Fetch lyrics and annotations from Genius.com
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genius-rs
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR \fI\,ARTIST\/\fR \fI\,TITLE\/\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Genius.com API client with HTML scraping for lyrics and annotations.
Tries a computed slug URL first (no API call), then falls back to the
Genius search API. Annotations use a three-tier fallback: Bearer token API,
page-embedded JSON, then empty result.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B fetch, lyrics
Fetch lyrics for a song. Prints lyrics with section headers like
[Verse 1], [Chorus]. Uses slug URL first, then API search.
.TP
.B search
Search Genius for a song. Returns song ID, URL path, year, album.
.TP
.B all, full
Fetch lyrics and all annotations. Annotations require GENIUS_TOKEN env var
for reliable results.
.TP
.B slug
Compute the Genius song URL from artist and title without making any
API call. Useful for testing slug generation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output in JSON format for machine parsing.
.TP
.B \-\-fixture \fI\,DIR\/\fR
Save parsed lyrics and annotations to files in the specified directory.
Useful for creating test fixtures.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose
Enable debug logging. Shows tracing output for HTTP requests,
HTML parsing, and annotation extraction.
.TP
.B \-\-raw-html
Print the raw HTML of the Genius song page instead of parsing it.
Useful for debugging scraping issues.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GENIUS_TOKEN
Genius API Bearer token. Required for reliable annotation fetching.
Get one at https://genius.com/api-clients
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Fetch lyrics
genius-rs fetch "FIDLAR" "Wasted"
.TP
Fetch lyrics with annotations
genius-rs all "FIDLAR" "Wasted"
.TP
JSON output for scripting
genius-rs fetch "Beatles" "Here Comes The Sun" \-\-json
.TP
Save fixtures for testing
genius-rs all "Queen" "Bohemian Rhapsody" \-\-fixture ./test_fixtures/
.TP
Debug scraping with verbose logging
genius-rs fetch "100 gecs" "money machine" \-\-verbose
.TP
Dump raw HTML for inspection
genius-rs fetch "FIDLAR" "Wasted" \-\-raw-html | head -100
.TP
Compute URL without API call
genius-rs slug "FIDLAR" "Wasted"
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
Success.
.IP 1
Error (no results, network failure, parse error).
.SH AUTHORS
caos-obliquo <caos_obliquo@outlook.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR ytmapi-cli (1)
