.TH YTMAPI-CLI 1 "2026-06-22" "0.1.0" "YouTube Music API CLI"
.SH NAME
ytmapi-cli \- YouTube Music API debug CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ytmapi-cli
[\fI\,OPTIONS\/\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR [\fI\,ARGS\/\fR...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Debug tool for the YouTube Music API. Can run live queries against
ytmusicapi-rs (requires cookie authentication) or parse saved JSON
fixture files offline. Uses YtMusic::from_cookie_file() for auth.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B search \fI\,QUERY\/\fR
Search songs matching QUERY. Requires auth.
.TP
.B search-artists \fI\,QUERY\/\fR
Search artists matching QUERY. Requires auth.
.TP
.B search-albums \fI\,QUERY\/\fR
Search albums matching QUERY. Requires auth.
.TP
.B playlist \fI\,PLAYLIST_ID\/\fR
Get all tracks in a playlist. Requires auth.
.TP
.B album \fI\,ALBUM_ID\/\fR
Get album details and track list. Requires auth.
.TP
.B artist \fI\,CHANNEL_ID\/\fR
Get artist info and songs. Requires auth.
.TP
.B library \fI\,playlists\fR|\fIsongs\fR
List library playlists or liked songs. Requires auth.
.TP
.B fixture \fI\,FILE\/\fR [\fB\-\-type\fR \fI\,TYPE\/\fR]
Parse a saved JSON fixture file offline. TYPE can be "search",
"playlist", or "album" (default: "search"). No auth needed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-cookie \fI\,FILE\/\fR
Path to cookies.txt file exported from browser. Required for live queries.
Can also be set via YTMAPI_COOKIE environment variable.
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output results as JSON for machine parsing.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B YTMAPI_COOKIE
Path to Netscape-format cookies.txt file exported from
https://music.youtube.com. Alternative to --cookie flag.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Search songs
ytmapi-cli search "FIDLAR" \-\-cookie cookies.txt
.TP
Search with JSON output
ytmapi-cli search "Beatles" \-\-cookie cookies.txt \-\-json
.TP
Get playlist tracks
ytmapi-cli playlist "PL1Q2uZ1WIhIdj477HZMLHG_crU28UyQdR" \-\-cookie cookies.txt
.TP
List library playlists
ytmapi-cli library playlists \-\-cookie cookies.txt
.TP
Parse fixture offline
ytmapi-cli fixture ytmapi-rs/test_json/search_songs_20231226.json \\-\\-type search
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
Success.
.IP 1
Error (no results, network failure, parse error, missing auth).
.SH AUTHORS
caos-obliquo <caos_obliquo@outlook.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR genius-rs (1)
